add test best practices (#2059)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/testing/best-practices/_index.md

## Avoid

### I/O

File access, device input, and network communication are slow operations which can create complex software and hardware dependencies. Tests performing I/O often encounter race conditions such as parallel contention. Most tests should prefer configuring mock implementations of I/O interfaces, and using in-memory buffers to simulate the behavior of actual input and output.

### Sleep

Do not rely on `this_thread::sleep` or `time.sleep` in tests. Be immediately suspicious if you see a sleep in a Pull Request. Some quick facts:

* Tests relying on sleeps are automatically slow: yielding control to the underlying OS scheduler and returning control is a slow operation.
  * Latency depends on the the specific device, and still can fluctuate with its physical and digital hardware state.
* Passing a duration to a sleep function requests a *minimum* time the thread should be suspended, not an exact time it will resume.

{{< caution >}}
Avoid invoking sleep in any code, it is almost never the correct tool!
{{< /caution >}}

> What are the alternatives?

Author: I think it's a good call to mention methods named "wait" which perform a similar sleep, though I also want to avoid digging too deeply into details in this document.

> What are the alternatives?

Reviewer: we don't want to instruct users to avoid idle_wait though since its function is not exactly sleep. idle_wait_frames is sometimes required to allow the engine main thread to process updates.

> * If you need to wait for a long-running operation, consider using AZStd::binary_sempahore or AZStd::condition_variable (semaphore preferred for simplicity) to block until the long running operation is done.

Author: Add tick marks around C++ names

### Platform-specific Tests

The majority of code and tests in O3DE should be written to be cross platform. Platform-specific production code should use the Platform Abstraction Layer (PAL) pattern. Tests should then rely on their production code to use PAL to provide the same functionality across different environments.

A test which must target platform-specific behavior should conditionally disable itself when that dependency is unavailable. Tests should *AVOID* performing conditional steps based on their environment, as this makes "the same test" significantly more difficult to investigate when it automatically behaves differently on different machines.

### Negative Assertions

Tests should positively verify an expected result occurred, instead of trying to negatively verify that "no bad side-effects" happened. This creates a problem because, unlike the correct result, the set of all potential incorrect results is effectively infinite. Consider the following code:

```cpp
int Math::FastSquare( const int number )
{
    return number + number; // bug!
}
```

```cpp
TEST(MathTests, FastSquare_Integer_Squared)
{
    //act
    int result = Math::FastSquare(10);
    //assert

>     EXPECT_NE(result), 0);

Author: extra parans

{{< /note >}}

It can be okay to include negative assertions when there is also at least one positive assertion, but they should not be solely relied on. Focus on identifying the expected output.

## Remember

### Insanity Checks

Make sure a new test is actually configured to run and report failures by temporarily editing the production code. Intentionally break the code in one way the test should detect, and run the test suite. If no failure occurs, investigate why!

### Floating Point Assertions

Floating-point numbers have problems with exact equality, as two floats can represent the "same" value but with slightly different rounding errors. Test frameworks provide special assertions that already account for many common issues:

* C++ distinguishes between floats and doubles since they are assessed differently `EXPECT_FLOAT_EQ(val1, val2)` and `EXPECT_DOUBLE_EQ(val1, val2)`
  * Custom error tolerance can also be provided to `EXPECT_NEAR(val1, val2, abs_error)`.

> * Python only has one floating point primitive, which is easily checked with `assert val1 == pytest.approx(val2)` or `unittest.assertAlmostEqual(val1, val2)`

Reviewer: in Editor Python Bindings python (in editor tests) you can also use azlmb.math.Math_IsClose(val1, val2) an optional 3rd parameter for non-default tolerance can also be utilized if variance is larger than default.
`from azlmbr.math import Math_IsClose`

By default test assertions output a terse message about the compared values. To help someone quickly understand a failure in the future, add a human-readable message. This can also include more context about other variables:

```cpp
TEST(WaterTests, LeakChecker_WaterAdded_DoesNotLeak)
{
    // (arrange and act omitted, to focus on the assert below)
    EXPECT_LE(difference, 0) << "Unexpectedly leaked " << difference << " units of Water from " << target.m_waterContainers;
}
```

```python
def test_LeakChecker_WaterAdded_DoesNotLeak():
    # (arrange and act omitted, to focus on the assert below)
    assert difference <= 0, f"Unexpectedly leaked {difference} units of Water from {target.water_container_dict}"
```

### Hard-coding Helps

Tests should clearly declare their own ground-truth they expect to verify. To keep a test simple and legible, prefer directly using hard-coded values over values obtained from another file or function. Reducing complexity in this way also reduces the chance of accidentally creating an incorrect assumption. Consider the following example code:

```cpp
int Math::FastSquare( const int number )
{
    return number + number; // bug!
}
```

```cpp

> 

Author: remove extra space

Author: May be appropriate to suggest the enum is in a separate (header) file

enum PrecomputedSquares
{
    pcs_one = 2;
    pcs_two = 4;
    // ...
    pcs_ten = 20;
}

int CalculateTestSquare( const int number)
{

>     return number * 2;

Author: Better 'bad' example to duplicate the code under test

}

TEST(MathTests, FastSquare_Integer_Squared)
{
    int tenSquared = Math::FastSquare(10);
    int result = Math::FastSquare(10);
    ASSERT_EQ(result, tenSquared);
}

TEST(MathTests, FastSquare_Integer_Squared2)
{
    int tenSquared = CalculateTestSquare(10);
    int result = Math::FastSquare(10);
    ASSERT_EQ(result, tenSquared);
}

TEST(MathTests, FastSquare_Integer_Squared3)
{
    int result = Math::FastSquare(10);
    ASSERT_EQ(result, pcs_ten);
}

TEST(MathTests, FastSquare_Integer_Squared4)
{
    int tenSquared = 20;
    int result = FastSquare(10);
    ASSERT_EQ(result, tenSquared);
}

TEST(MathTests, FastSquare_Integer_Squared5)
{
    ASSERT_EQ(FastSquare(10), 20);
}
```

> The test code above incorrectly expects the buggy behavior of the production code in every test, which will each pass! Each test is incorrectly written in a different way, so the bug cannot be caught. However since the fourth and fifth hard-code the expectation, it is easier to visually find the error when looking at the test code. Try to avoid burying assumptions in other files and functions.

Author: change `fourth and fifth` to `last two tests`

#### Mitigating Drawbacks

1. To reduce overall debugging time, unit tests can act as a filter to catch simple issues before they appear as confusing integration test failures
    * Investigate unit test failures first
    * When an integration test failure is identified, take a moment to ask "how could this be caught with a unit test?"
2. Tests should remain focused on the behavior of one specific feature
    * Structurally, an integration test should try to follow the simple pattern of `Arrange, Act, Assert` and avoid taking many different actions
    * While integration tests are intended to cover multiple dependencies, reducing the scope of actions and assertions reduces the risk of spending more time debugging tests than fixing the underlying problem
3. Reduce the amount of code necessary for the integration test
    * Consider refactoring the production interface to make it easier to write (unit) tests

>     * Remove similar highly-similar integration tests by combining their steps, and/or eliminating less-critical verifications

Reviewer: it might be worth mentioning that unlike unit tests, Editor Python Binding in editor automation involves the launch and initialization of an editor instance. Whenever possible tests should utilize batched testing with the multitest framework and individual tests may consider containing more complex steps rather than breaking across multiple tests. While this diverges from the atomic isolation of tests it reduces overall execution time.

Author: I actually removed this advice because of recent issues with batched and parallel execution ...but as you mention, I it's still good advice to heuristically aim for. Existence of bugs shouldn't mean an area needs to be avoided! I think it's worth adding back in.

{{< /caution >}}

While there is a significant amount of UI code in O3DE, it's recommended that automated tests avoid targeting the UI layer. UI tests are relatively complex and expensive to maintain. It is also easy to attempt writing acceptance-style tests for the UI, where robotic scripts struggle to provide useful feedback. Such tests can quickly consume more human effort to debug than to manually exercise the UI.

Relying on UI tests to verify features tends to be brittle, and can prompt many confusing debugging sessions. In an ideal scenario there would already be non-UI integration tests, which fully test out the underlying logic of a feature. Then any UI tests above that layer would then not be responsible for testing the system, but only for testing how the interface reacts to simple interactions. Whenever possible, prefer implementing that lower layer of non-UI automation.

> ### Performance/Load/Stress Tests

Reviewer: do we consider Soak Testing to be the same as Stress Testing here? Stress being a high transaction/interaction level whereas soak is a long duration test looking for stability and resource leaks.

also do we want to cover Fuzz Testing somewhere. we don't currently do this, but large portions of the engine are involved in deserializing content, settings and other content inputs. Fuzz testing would focus on these parsers or any other interfaces where data enters the engine and can be corrupted.

Author: I don't quite know what high-level advice to provide for soak tests, and this isn't trying to present a full taxonomy. I would say that a soak test generally isn't as focused on raw performance metrics, and is often more interested in finding crashes. Perhaps this points toward detecting memory leaks? Is that appropriate for a general testing advice page? Can you recommend a way to expand that into this section?

There's actually a number of lower-level fuzz tests in C++, but I think they're a fairly inefficient way of writing automated tests. They seem like something useful to temporarily execute when you don't actually know what boundaries or failures you need to test against, similar to low-level Chaos Engineering. Again, not quite sure what to recommend about them at a high level, or where to recommend using/avoiding them.

Reviewer: perhaps recommend avoiding the inclusion of non-deterministic fuzz testing in general automation. Fuzz testing should be a distinct testing pass using tooling for that purpose. general automation tests should utilize repeatable values rather than changing behaviors so that investigating failures can be accomplished with less effort.

Reviewer: perhaps a subsection of "Avoid" titled "Non-Deterministic and Fuzz test values in general tests" then basically say it's tempting to make test values random or use fuzzing for test automation as this seems to cover more ground, however this causes issues investigating any defects encountered as the exact repro may be difficult to generate. reserve fuzz testing for a dedicated pass.

Performance testing targets the efficiency of a process, hardware configuration, or fleet of machines. This category of tests focus on monitoring throughput and detecting breaking-points. Since the focus is on recording metrics, performance tests differ from functional tests such as unit tests. Functional tests seek an objective boolean pass/fail state. Performance tests instead log subective metrics, which require additional analysis as they change over time.

O3DE's performance testing tools focus on two layers of creating metrics on the local machine:

1. [Micro-benchmarks](/docs/user-guide/testing/getting-started/#googlebenchmark) of individual functions with GoogleBenchmark
   * Similar to unit tests
2. [Profiling markers](/docs/user-guide/testing/profiler/) annotated into different systems of the engine
   * Similar to system tests

## Which Tests are Best?

> Short answer: the most useful automated test is usually a unit test. Don't get paralyzed by test design decisions! Write a small test now, and revise your approach while iterating on the feature. If a bug slips through your tests, revise the tests to catch it next time.

Author: Perhaps this "short answer" should be a note?

> In more detail: there is often no easy answer to which types of test are the most important for a feature. Writing automated tests of each kind can help ensure the highest quality products, but all code comes with a maintenance cost. A balance of tests of each kind based on their effectiveness and resilience is recocmmended:

Reviewer: somewhere you should point out the purpose of automated testing is the detection of regression. a key thing for contributors to understand is that automation is there to prevent new defects from integrating during code changes/refactoring or dependency changes.
automated testing is not generally useful for the detection of novel defects since typically the tests and features introduced together are all functioning or they would not be merged.

Author: Is this adequately covered [under Unit Tests](https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/pull/2059/files/a7f1c70a33e315f5d8c6c503093bf6c80b15895b#diff-16dafdb2e13b4031aeec68343246930a81a0dbfa3e7450b1d3288dc49ecab232R176) where it speaks about tiny robots? Does that need to be repeated here?

I don't want this set of advice to get too deep into the theory/persuasion about why certain things are effective (or what their gaps are), and instead focus on the recommendations.

Reviewer: maybe in the opening paragraph one quick sentence about why automated testing is desired. something in the opening paragraph will TL;DR message for folks who don't want details here but can at least go away with the notion that automation is for detecting regressions first and foremost.

> * Unit tests should account for at least 80% of the total number of tests.

Reviewer: 80% seems arbitrary here. unit test code coverage of 80% is typically the industry standard target. 80% of number of tests is an odd target that bundles unit tests in with existence of integration and other high level tests.
would be better to say if you only have one type of test unit tests are the priority.
code coverage is a different topic to cover

Author: This isn't discussing coverage, only raw counts of tests.  Yes it's an arbitrary recommendation. How can it be more clear about it being arbitrary? Should this simply say "a vast majority" ?

Reviewer: perhaps "the vast majority of testing should be accomplished with unit tests wherever possible". you could have supplemental links pointing to testing pyramid articles.

{{< caution >}}
While the pattern above recommends using underscores, never start or end test names with underscores! This can result in [GoogleTest creating an invalid function name](http://google.github.io/googletest/faq.html#why-should-test-suite-names-and-test-names-not-contain-underscore) or [PyTest not discovering the test](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#private-variables).
{{< /caution >}}

## Disabling/Skipping Tests

Ideally all automated test failures prompt immediately fixing the broken feature (or updating the test, when underlying expectations have changed). However sometimes a tradeoff must be made, which breaks a feature while enabling other functionality. In a case where functionality is known to be broken, automated tests can be temporarily "skipped" or disabled.

Whenever a test provided with O3DE gets disabled, please [cut an issue](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/issues/new/choose) to track fixing the feature and re-enabling the tests.

## Test-Driven Development (TDD)

> Test-Driven Development is a software writing workflow which prompts engineers to iteratively develop code. The Red-Green-Refactor process can carve up questions such as "what should I build next?". This helps avoid becoming lost in the ambiguity of software design. TDD also has an extra benefit of leaving behind tests targeting critical requirements. Repeating these three steps can help design new functionality:

Author: "carve up questions ... into actionable tasks"

---
linkTitle: Best Practices
title: Test Automation Best Practices
description: Advice for automating tests in Open 3D Engine (O3DE).
toc: true
weight: 600
---

This page provides advice on how many independent developers can efficiently maintain the **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** with automated tests. The advice applies both to teams using O3DE who write their own automation, as well as to anyone contributing to O3DE. This document is not intended to serve as an exhaustive source of testing advice. It instead provides baseline definitions, and heuristics for investing in test automation. Each concept only serves as a brief introduction, as numerous in depth articles can be found published by other sources.

## Cheatsheet

> ### Avoid

Author: I don't like how this heading renders on the docs site. Debating whether it is a useful enough heading to add a description to, or whether `Avoid` and `Remember` should be promoted to the top level. The lower-level headings may then also need a blurb.

---
linkTitle: Best Practices
title: Test Automation Best Practices
description: Advice for automating tests in Open 3D Engine (O3DE).
toc: true
weight: 600
---

This page provides advice on how many independent developers can efficiently maintain the **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** with automated tests. The advice applies both to teams using O3DE who write their own automation, as well as to anyone contributing to O3DE. This document is not intended to serve as an exhaustive source of testing advice. It instead provides baseline definitions, and heuristics for investing in test automation. Each concept only serves as a brief introduction, as numerous in depth articles can be found published by other sources.

## Avoid

### I/O

> File access, device input, and network communication are slow operations which can create complex software and hardware dependencies. Tests performing I/O often encounter race conditions such as parallel contention. Most tests should prefer configuring mock implementations of I/O interfaces, and using in-memory buffers to simulate the behavior of actual input and output.

Author: Slightly revised the content, as I didn't quite like how splitting out the recommendation flowed. Definitely open to discussing a specific recommended edit.

  * Latency depends on the the specific device, and still can fluctuate with its physical and digital hardware state.
* Passing a duration to a sleep function requests a *minimum* time the thread should be suspended, not an exact time it will resume.

{{< caution >}}
Avoid invoking sleep in any code, it is almost never the correct tool!
{{< /caution >}}

What are the alternatives?

* If you need to wait for a long-running operation, consider using `AZStd::binary_sempahore` or `AZStd::condition_variable` (semaphore preferred for simplicity) to block until the long running operation is done.
* If you need to test some time-dependent functionality and need to advance time, expose the ability to advance time programmatically.
  * Avoids relying on OS performance counters.
  * Allows for more accurate simulation control while testing.
* If you need Python to block until a condition is met, try `ly_test_tools.environment.waiter.wait_for(boolean_function)`
  * If you need to synchronize Python and C++ code inside the O3DE Editor, prefer `azlmbr.legacy.general.idle_wait_frames` over `idle_wait_seconds`

### Platform-specific Tests

> The majority of code and tests in O3DE should be written to be cross platform. Platform-specific production code should use the Platform Abstraction Layer (PAL) pattern. Tests should then rely on their production code to use PAL to provide the same functionality across different environments.

Author: No, and I cut https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/issues/2058 to address that

```cpp
int Math::FastSquare( const int number )
{
    return number + number; // bug!
}
```

```cpp
TEST(MathTests, FastSquare_Integer_Squared)
{
    //act
    int result = Math::FastSquare(10);
    //assert
    EXPECT_NE(result, 0);
    EXPECT_NE(result, -1);
    EXPECT_NE(result, 10);
}
```

The example above contains a bug where the code under test does not actually compute the square of a number. The test correctly verifies the computation is not equal to a few values known to not be the square of 10, however it never attempts to identify the correct answer. Due to this, the test cannot catch the bug!

{{< note >}}
Negative assertions are different from negative test cases. A negative test case should set up an error-scenario, and then positively identify that one correct error-response is emitted. Negative cases should also avoid negative assertions.
{{< /note >}}

It can be okay to include negative assertions when there is also at least one positive assertion, but they should not be solely relied on. Focus on identifying the expected output.

## Remember

### Insanity Checks

> Make sure a new test is actually configured to run and report failures by temporarily editing the production code. Intentionally break the code in one way the test should detect, and run the test suite. If no failure occurs, investigate why!

Author: I think the best practice would generally be "don't check in an insanity test" ...which is automatically true for any failing test, so perhaps this needs clarifying about not creating a test that negatively verifies insanity? What would you recommend? (related: I don't want to muddle this section with negative cases which positively identify an error-code/message)

### Floating Point Assertions

Floating-point numbers have problems with exact equality, as two floats can represent the "same" value but with slightly different rounding errors. Test frameworks provide special assertions that already account for many common issues:

* C++ distinguishes between floats and doubles since they are assessed differently `EXPECT_FLOAT_EQ(val1, val2)` and `EXPECT_DOUBLE_EQ(val1, val2)`
  * Custom error tolerance can also be provided to `EXPECT_NEAR(val1, val2, abs_error)`.
* Python only has one floating point primitive, which is easily checked with `assert val1 == pytest.approx(val2)` or `unittest.assertAlmostEqual(val1, val2)`
  * In-editor Python tests interacting with C++ code can call `azlmbr.math.Math_IsClose(val1, val2, tolerance)`

### Assertion Messages

> By default test assertions output a terse message about the compared values. To help someone quickly understand a failure in the future, add a human-readable message. This can also include more context about other variables:

Reviewer 2: Something like, "Assertion messages should provide debugging information from related variables, not just the assertion values at fault."

O3DE's performance testing tools focus on two layers of creating metrics on the local machine:

1. [Micro-benchmarks](/docs/user-guide/testing/getting-started/#googlebenchmark) of individual functions with GoogleBenchmark
   * Similar to unit tests
2. [Profiling markers](/docs/user-guide/testing/profiler/) annotated into different systems of the engine
   * Similar to system tests

## Which Tests are Best?

{{< note >}}
Don't get paralyzed by test design! The most useful automated test is usually a unit test. Write a small test now, and revise your approach while iterating on the feature. If a bug slips through your tests, revise the tests to catch it next time.
{{< /note >}}

There is often no easy answer to which types of test are the most important for a feature. Automated tests are useful because they reduce the human effort to write working code, quickly detecting when functionality regresses to a broken state. Automating many tests of each kind can help ensure the highest quality products, but all code comes with its own maintenance cost. A balance of tests based on their effectiveness and resilience is recocmmended:

> * Unit tests should account for the vast majority of the total number of tests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Unit tests should account for the vast majority of tests, they are:
```

  * The most efficient to write, execute, and maintain.

>   * First line of automated defense against newly introduced bugs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * The first line of automated defense against newly introduced bugs.
```

>   * Often referred to as the base of a "Testing Pyramid"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Often referred to as the base of a *Testing Pyramid*.
```

> * Integration tests should account for most of the remaining automated tests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Integration tests should account for most of the remaining automated tests.  Remember the following points about them:
```

>   * Integration often catch the most variety of bugs, but also require significantly more effort to write and maintain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Integration tests often catch the largest variety of bugs but require significantly more effort to write and maintain.
```

>   * UI tests should extremely limited. Most integration tests can be written just below the UI layer, to verify the core functionality of the systems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Use of UI tests should be limited. Most integration tests can be written just below the UI layer to verify the core functionality of the systems.
```

> * System tests should account for a few tests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* System tests should account for few tests.  When writing system tests:
```

>   * Only the few most critical few workflows should be included.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Only the most critical workflows should be included.
```

>   * Should not aim to be exhaustive.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * System tests should not aim to be exhaustive.
```

> * Performance metrics and other specialized tests should be added only when specific need is identified.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Only add performance metrics and other specialized tests when you identify a specific need.
```

## Where Do I Write New Tests?

> Low-level tests such as Unit Tests and Micro-Benchmarks should live adjacent to the code being tested, in a folder named `/Tests/`. Test-specific dependencies such as mock interfaces should exist in a similar location, such as `/Mocks/`. When modifying code for an existing feature, look for tests which already exist.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Low-level tests such as Unit Tests and Micro-Benchmarks should live adjacent to the code being tested in a folder named `/Tests/`. Test-specific dependencies, like mock interfaces, should exist in a similar location, such as `/Mocks/`. When modifying code for an existing feature, look for tests that already exist.
```

> Higher-level tests have more dependencies, and should live in a directory common to their set of dependencies. This is often an [O3DE Project](/docs/user-guide/project-config/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Higher-level tests have more dependencies and should live in a directory common to their set of dependencies. This is often an [O3DE Project](/docs/user-guide/project-config/).
```

> For more information on how to write and register automated tests, refer to the [Testing Quickstart Guide](/docs/user-guide/testing/getting-started/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information on writing and registering automated tests, refer to the [Testing Quickstart Guide](/docs/user-guide/testing/getting-started/).
```

## Test Names

> Tests should have unique, obvious names to help document what they perform. One highly recommended pattern is the [Osherove Naming](http://osherove.com/blog/2005/4/3/naming-standards-for-unit-tests.html) structure of `<UnitOfWork>_<StateUnderTest>_<ExpectedBehavior>`. This maps to the "Arrange, Act, Assert" test structure, and keeps test names readable at a glance:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tests should have unique, obvious names to help document what they perform. One highly recommended pattern is the [Osherove Naming](http://osherove.com/blog/2005/4/3/naming-standards-for-unit-tests.html) structure of `<UnitOfWork>_<StateUnderTest>_<ExpectedBehavior>`. This maps to the "Arrange, Act, Assert" test structure and keeps test names readable at a glance:
```

> 1. UnitOfWork: The critical interaction verified. (Act)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. UnitOfWork: The critical interaction to verify. (Act)
```

>    * Typically named for single action, often including the name of the target function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Typically named for a single action, often including the name of the target function.
```

>    * Easy to read, since it comes first.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Easy to read since it comes first.
```

2. StateUnderTest: Unique configuration steps. (Arrange)
   * Describes what makes the test vary from "normal" conditions in similar tests.

>      * When nothing seems special use a placeholder such as `Default` or `HappyPath`, or omit this.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     * When nothing seems extraordinary use a placeholder such as `Default`, or `HappyPath`, or omit this term.
```

3. ExpectedBehavior: The expected outcome of the test. (Assert)

>    * Often describes the type of assertion being made, or highlights the most important of multiple asserted values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Often describes the type of assertion made or highlights the most important of multiple asserted values.
```

>    * Easy to read, since it comes last.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Easy to read since it comes last.
```

An alternative ways to think about this pattern is `<WhatIsTested>_<NotableConfigurationStep>_<ImportantAssertion>`

There are two main reasons to use this naming method:

> 1. When a test fails, a human can look at a report summary and quickly form an idea of what went wrong.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. When a test fails, a human can look at a report summary and quickly understand what went wrong.
```

Author: I think this loses a lot of color about not fully understanding, but I'm okay accepting the recommendation.

   * If test `MatrixDotProduct_SecondMatrixInvalidRows_InvalidDimensions` starts failing, someone may immediately suspect what caused the issue before navigating through code.
2. The name documents what makes the test uniquely important.

>    * This makes it easier to assess what is currently tested, and then declare a new test which is not a duplicate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * This makes it easier to assess what is currently tested and then declare a new test that is not a duplicate.
```

{{< caution >}}
While the pattern above recommends using underscores, never start or end test names with underscores! This can result in [GoogleTest creating an invalid function name](http://google.github.io/googletest/faq.html#why-should-test-suite-names-and-test-names-not-contain-underscore) or [PyTest not discovering the test](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/classes.html#private-variables).
{{< /caution >}}

## Disabling/Skipping Tests

> Ideally all automated test failures prompt immediately fixing the broken feature (or updating the test, when underlying expectations have changed). However sometimes a tradeoff must be made, which breaks a feature while enabling other functionality. In a case where functionality is known to be broken, automated tests can be temporarily "skipped" or disabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ideally, all automated test failures prompt immediately fixing the broken feature (or updating the test when underlying expectations have changed). However, sometimes a tradeoff must be made, which breaks a feature while enabling other functionality. In a case where functionality is known to be broken, automated tests can be temporarily "skipped" or disabled.
```

Whenever a test provided with O3DE gets disabled, please [cut an issue](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/issues/new/choose) to track fixing the feature and re-enabling the tests.

## Test-Driven Development (TDD)

Test-Driven Development is a software writing workflow which prompts engineers to iteratively develop code. The Red-Green-Refactor process can carve up questions such as "what should I build next?" into actionable tasks. This helps avoid getting lost in the ambiguity of software design. TDD also has an extra benefit of leaving behind tests targeting critical requirements. Repeating these three steps can help design new features:

1. Red: Write a new failing (unit) test for new functionality.
   * What does success look like?
   * Who is going to use this code? How will they use it?
2. Green: Write production code to make the test pass.
   * What is the simplest code that works?
3. Refactor: Improve the code and tests.
   * Are there obvious gaps, repetitions, or inconsistencies?
   * Was the correct functionality actually achieved? Can it be better demonstrated?
   * Taking a step back, are there any better approaches?

{{< note >}}

> TDD is one small, effective tool to help with software design. It is best employed alongside other design tools, such as the [SOLID design principles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SOLID). TDD helps focus on lower-level concerns, and prompts asking broader questions. However it also assumes high-level requirements gathering has already provided direction for a task.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TDD is one small, effective tool to help with software design. It is best employed alongside other design tools, such as the [SOLID design principles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SOLID). TDD helps focus on lower-level concerns and prompts asking broader questions. However, it also assumes high-level requirements gathering has already provided direction for a task.
```

{{< /note >}}

> The primary benefit of TDD is writing code which is easy to use and maintain, plus tests to prove it functions correctly in the future. If you don't already use TDD, try it out for your next feature!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The primary benefit of TDD is writing code that is easy to use and maintain, plus tests to prove it functions correctly in the future. If you don't already use TDD, try it out for your next feature!
```
